CTOR-1156: Refresh cloud-prometheus-api (#3911)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-prometheus-api.md

---
id: cloud-prometheus-api
title: Prometheus Server API
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Connector dependencies

> The following monitoring connectors will be installed when you install the **Prometheus Server** connector through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following monitoring connectors will be installed when you install the **Prometheus Server API** connector through the
```

**Configuration > Monitoring Connector Manager** menu:
* [Base Pack](./base-generic.md)

## Pack assets

### Templates

> The Monitoring Connector **Prometheus Server** brings 2 host templates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Monitoring Connector **Prometheus Server API** brings 2 host templates:
```

* **Cloud-Prometheus-Api-custom**
* **Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Name-Api-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Cloud-Prometheus-Api-custom" label="Cloud-Prometheus-Api-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template                          | Service Description  |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------------|:---------------------|

> | Target-Status | Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Status-Api-custom | Check targets status |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Target-Status | Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Status-Api-custom | Check the status of targets |
```

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Cloud-Prometheus-Api-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Name-Api-custom" label="Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Name-Api-custom">

| Service Alias      | Service Template                               | Service Description  |
|:-------------------|:-----------------------------------------------|:---------------------|

> | Target-Name-Status | Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Name-Status-Api-custom | Check targets status |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Target-Name-Status | Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Name-Status-Api-custom | Check the status of targets |
```

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Cloud-Prometheus-Target-Name-Api-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Not attached to a host template" label="Not attached to a host template">

| Service Alias | Service Template                       | Service Description                                                    |
|:--------------|:---------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Expression    | Cloud-Prometheus-Expression-Api-custom | Check allowing to execute queries and use results to define thresholds |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Expression    | Cloud-Prometheus-Expression-Api-custom | This check executes queries and uses the results to define thresholds |
```

2. Fill in the **Name**, **Alias** & **IP Address/DNS** fields according to your resource's settings.
3. Apply the **Cloud-Prometheus-Api-custom** template to the host. A list of macros appears. Macros allow you to define how the connector will connect to the resource, and to customize the connector's behavior.
4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory.

| Macro              | Description                                                                                                                              | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:-------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| PROMETHEUSAPIPROTO | Specify https if needed                                                                                                                  | http              |             |
| PROMETHEUSAPIPORT  | API port                                                                                                                                 | 9090              |             |

> | PROMETHEUSAPIURL   | API url path                                                                                                                             | /api/v1           |             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PROMETHEUSAPIURL   | API URL path                                                                                                                             | /api/v1           |             |
```

| PROMETHEUSAPIPORT     | API port                                                                                                                                 | 9090              |             |
| FILTERLABEL           | Set filter on label (regexp, can be defined multiple times) (example: --filter-label='job,kube.*')                                       |                   |             |
| PROMETHEUSAPIURL      | API url path                                                                                                                             | /api/v1           |             |
| EXTRAOPTIONS          | Any extra option you may want to add to every command (a --verbose flag for example). All options are listed [here](#available-options). |                   |             |

5. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The host appears in the list of hosts, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the host: it shows the values of the macros.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### Using a service template provided by the connector

Reviewer: what about the section on the left? isn't it interesting?
